What is Routing in ASP.NET MVC?
The ASP.NET MVC Routing module is responsible for mapping the incoming browser requests (i.e. the incoming URL or incoming HTTP Requests) to a particular controller action method. This mapping is done by the routing rules defined for your application. For example, if we issue a request to the “/Home/Index” URL, then it is the Index action method of the Home Controller class that is going to handle the request

Routing in ASP.NET MVC is a pattern matching mechanism that handles the incoming HTTP request (i.e. incoming URL) and figures out what to do with that incoming HTTP request.

When the client makes a request i.e. makes an HTTP Request, then that request is first received by the Routing Engine. Once the Routing engine receives an HTTP Request, then it figures out the URL Pattern of the incoming request and checks if that URL pattern is present in the Route table. If it found a matching URL pattern for the incoming request in the Route Table, then it fetches the corresponding handler information and forwards the request to the appropriate controller and action method. If there is no match found in the routing table for the incoming HTTP request URL Pattern, then it simply returns a 404 HTTP status code. The routing functionality is implemented in the System.Web.Routing


Web api routing
 It routes an incoming HTTP request to a particular action method on a Web API controller.

Web API supports two types of routing:

Convention-based Routing
Attribute Routing

Convention-based Routing
In the convention-based routing, Web API uses route templates to determine which controller and action method to execute. At least one route template must be added into route table in order to handle various HTTP requests.

When we created Web API project using WebAPI template in the Create Web API Project section, it also added WebApiConfig class in the App_Start folder with default route

Attribute Routing
Attribute routing is supported in Web API 2. As the name implies, attribute routing uses [Route()] attribute to define routes. The Route attribute can be applied on any controller or action method.

In order to use attribute routing with Web API, it must be enabled in WebApiConfig by calling config.MapHttpAttributeRoutes() method.